Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
Today we are very happy to have on this program, and I'm very proud to be able to introduce
to all of you that distinguished Attorney General of the United States Robert Kennedy.
And I want to say in that connection that I think that Mr. Kennedy is making a excellent
attorney general.
I was proud to just put him.
I don't want to say too many things to embarrass him here in his presence, but as all of
you know, he is 35 years old and is the youngest attorney general that we've had in more
than 100 years.
I don't know what happened to that fellow Bob that was younger than you.
I don't know as to go.
But then the event I think that Attorney General Kennedy is surrounding himself with very
able assistance that he is going to be a determined and active and courageous Attorney General.
And I think we'll be mighty proud of the record that he is going to make or that he is
making.
We have a special interest in one person and your immediate staff, Mr. Attorney General,
and that's John Seagal Taylor.
John was the Assistant City Editor of the National Tennessee, and how did you get mixed up
with John?
We were investigating some three years ago, I guess, Senator.
We were, I was Counselor of the Senate Records Committee, and we were investigating a situation
down in Tennessee involving some corruption in dishonesty and involving a judge in Tennessee.
And John Seagal Taylor was the one that first brought it to our attention as well as followed
shortly afterwards by a number of your other citizens there.
And we made an investigation, held some hearings, and he was very instrumental in uncovering
information which was ultimately revealed at our hearings.
And then later on, you know, your legislature picked it up and the judge was impeached.
And I think that each covered that and was very helpful to them also.
So I got to know him then, and he worked in the campaign with us.
He was my administrative assistant, and when I was out speaking in the country, he was
really running the whole campaign.
So I was pointing to this position, I asked him if he'd come and be my assistant here.
So I think that I'm very fortunate in having him.
Well, we all think that John is a very able man.
I know he's working awfully hard.
Well, I want to say, our folks, that I think the new program, our president Kennedy, is getting
started off fine.
There's a lot of activity.
There are many plans to do many things that are necessary, such as the area redevelopment
bill.
He's gotten food out to the needy.
We have programs that will soon be before the Senate in connection with raising the minimum
wage and extending the coverage assistance to the aged and medical assistance.
So the things are really humming in Washington.
Of course, there's a lot of confusion and difficulty in the transition from one administration
to another.
And more of a sometime, how president Kennedy stands all of the strain that must be placed
upon him during this very difficult time.
Bob, I know you see your brother, John, very often.
How's it feeling?
Well, I think very well.
As I believe you know, Senator, I don't think there's anything that is more difficult than
an arduous campaign.
You went through the campaign in Wisconsin, I believe four years ago, and we went through
it just a year ago.
And I don't think anything could be as tough as that.
And then the campaign, New Hampshire, and traveling all around the country making as many
as 20 or 22 speeches a day and sleeping four or five hours, that this actually is less
difficult physically than that kind of an operation.
And then?
You mean being president is less difficult than all this campaign?
Certainly physically.
They're all traveling and all that strain of making speeches continuously.
So I think that he's getting extremely healthy and in very good position to make some of
these decisions.
I think health makes a big difference if you're healthy.
You can meet these problems and difficulties much easier.
And I've never seen his health better than it's been over the period of the last year or
so.
And as I say, I think that it's not a great deal difference than what he's been through
in the past.
Well, I must say that when Senator Gore and I went down to see him last week at Common,
President Jackson's portrait was put back up in the conference room that he certainly
looked well and very keen and interested and anxious to get all of the ideas he could.
That's a wonderful picture, I think.
Yes, I think it is.
It should have been up on the wall all the time.
I have a very interesting letter that I obtained at an auction some years ago of President
Jackson that he wrote just before the battle in New Orleans to his wife telling about the
positions of the British and he anticipated for the future.
Well, that's a very precious letter.
Yes, and a very touching letter too.
Very touching.
On any time that you don't have some precious place to keep it, I know the Hermitage would
be glad to have it on there among our precious documents.
Thank you.
We have a state library that has a collection of Andrew Jackson's letters and papers.
No doubt you've seen it down.
I did.
I visited there and I visited the Hermitage.
I've got a also that was a very important momento to me.
A gable letter was sent by the governor which is taken from the desk of President Jackson
when he was the living in Nashville, Tennessee.
I believe governor Beeper Dallings has brought that up to Washington.
He was very nice.
I have that on my desk at the Attorney General's Office.
Do you ever have to use it to keep your associates in order?
John Sikinsol occasionally, but other than him, no.
I noticed in the paper that you're a wonderful assistant, Byron, Wizard of White.
Yeah.
Probably a little too nervous and has gone to the hospital.
I knew that.
Well, he said some difficulty with it.
It's alright, but there.
Well, he's a wonderful fellow.
The one thing I think about you and your outstanding brother and all of the candidates
you have, the tremendous energy and interest in the power to relax, which is of what anyone
in public office needs.
Well, do you mind if I, we talk a little bit about how things are going?
How do you feel that the new program is going generally, the new frontier?
Well, I think that we're making a good deal of progress, Senator.
I think, of course, it's early, Tony Ben, I think it's 40 days since the inauguration.
I think that President Shone by the various programs that he's offered, that he feels
it's necessary and essential that the country move again in many areas.
And here and the United States and our relationship with other countries.
And he's trying to take some steps to get some of these programs, excepted by Congress
and accepted by the American people.
And I think that there's some good deal of progress as being made.
Of course, I think that we all, everybody, appreciate the fact that before, great many
things can be done, that cabinet members have to have hearings before the committees
and they have to be confirmed.
And I believe that all the cabinet members, and practically all of the people who have
to come before the Senate to be confirmed have been confirmed.
Correct, yes.
And I don't believe today that any of them have been turned down.
Now, there.
Which speaks might well for the people who are being selected.
Well, now Mr. Tony General, or Bob, if I may call you that, tell us, I have a feeling
that the Attorney General, if the Department of Justice, is really humming and the things
are growing and everybody is working hard with the determination to enforce the law and
to improve the enforcement of the law.
Tell us something about your plans.
How about in the antitrust field where we had a shocking experience recently, finding
the some officials in the electrical manufacturing industry, a fixing crisis, talking things
over, violating the law, and now some of them have been sent to penal institution upon
their plea of guilty.
What about that?
Well, there are going to be a number of cases that are going to arise out of those cases,
Senator.
And you were well aware, because I think that was first initially developed by your committee,
the facts that which ultimately led up to their indictment and their conviction.
There were sales, for instance, to TBA, where we're shown that the sales were handled through
rig bidding, the contract is getting together amongst themselves and determining what the
prices should be, who should get the bid.
The government is now going to take action.
I would think within about six weeks to try to collect damages from the electrocouponies
and the areas in which they were defrauded.
One of the major areas will be in the TBA, but there will be a number of other government
agencies whose contracts will be studied to determine whether we can also bring some
action at the federal level.
We will continue to be working in this whole area of price fixing.
I think it has a very important effect on local community.
This last electrocoupon case had a nationwide effect, but there are many other similar cases
which have an effect on a state or on a particular city or in a community.
We are investigating a number of those.
I might say that we're extremely appreciative of the help and cooperation and the very
important leads that we have received from your committee because I think that that kind
of information that you've given to the executive branch of the government has been almost
essential for us to proceed in these areas.
I hope that you and TBA will continue in your hearing so that the two branches of the
government can work together in this matter.
Thank you, Bob.
I've been the chairman of the Antitrust and Monopoly subcommittee for a number of years
and never had we received better cooperation or more sympathetic attitude from anyone than
we have from you as the U.L.
Attorney General.
We did find it bids out to the TBA, even though the companies might be in different parts
of the United States have different labor costs, even though they were secret bids that
strangely they were identical and that they were so often they would be a rotation
so as to give the bid to some particular company.
I think the public ought to understand that this is very destructive of our free enterprise
system.
It's a kind of thing that we cannot tolerate and we're going to work out along with you
and further investigations.
But this might be going on in other lines of industry.
I suppose that you and we will be looking at this.
Yes.
You made a great record as General Counsel or Chief Counsel of the Senate Records Committee
headed up by Senator John McCluller in the Barkham South.
I admired your courage and your energy and thoroughness and carrying out the work of
that committee.
I've been very pleased to know about your attitude and your determination to do something
to try to rid the nation of the at least check or stop where we can influence the criminal
element.
But you tell us something about that, Mr. Attorney General?
Well, I think that the situation since 1950 when you first developed these matters has
become even more critical.
I agree with you.
I think that the necessary and essential of the executive branch of the government step
in with a forceful program.
I think rising the steps that will be taken, rising out of the conference that you and
Senator Colin and Jay Edgar Hoover, the FBI and I had the Department of Justice several
weeks ago, that there will be important steps taken.
I don't think that this problem will be solved overnight as both of us recognize.
But I think we can take certain steps which will make a major difference in many areas
of the United States to stamp out organized crime.
Well, I know something about your plans and I'm certain that great benefits will come
from it.
I know that people all over the country who are interested in stamping out organized crime
better law enforcement are going to be encouraged.
And after all, the activity of people at the local level is accounts very, very much
doesn't it?
Certainly does.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kennedy has been down to Tennessee on many occasions.
I know that many of you have met him and seen him.
I know you will follow his career with a great deal of interest.
And let me say again that I think when the history of this administration has written,
I think that we will all record that he has been one of the great attorney generals
in the history of our nation.
We thank you very much, Bob.
Thank you very much.
I'll see you again soon.
Thanks, sir.
That's all for now.